Adding a dumpload of documentation (#113)
ESMValGroup/ESMValCore: doc/esmvalcore/recipe.rst

.. _recipe:

******
Recipe
******

Overview
========

> After ``config-user.yml``, the ``recipe.yml`` file the second the user inputted file

Reviewer: Missing a verb here?

> to ESMValTool at each run time point. Rceipes contain the data and data analysis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to ESMValTool at each run time point. Recipes contain the data and data analysis
```

information and instructions needed to run the diagnostic(s), as well as specific
diagnostic-related instructions.

> Broadly, recipes contain information on the user who wrote the

Reviewer: Actually is a general description section, which contains other info than the author.

recipe file, the datasets which need to be run, the preprocessors that need to be
applied, and the diagnostics which need to be run over the preprocessed data.

> This information is provided to ESMValTool in for main recipe sections:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This information is provided to ESMValTool in four recipe sections:
```

Documentation_, Datasets_, Preprocessors_ and Diagnostics_,
respectively.

.. _Documentation:

Recipe section: ``documentation``
=================================

The documentation section includes:

- The recipe's author's user name (``authors``, as they appaer in ``config-references.yml`` config-ref_)
- A description of the recipe (``description``, written in MarkDown format)

> - The user name of the maintainer (``maintainer``, as they appaer in ``config-references.yml`` config-ref_)

Reviewer: Drop this, we are not going to use it for long and not all recipes contain this information.

      projects:
        - ukesm

.. note::

>    **Information from config-references.yml**

Reviewer: Make this a note or a warning?

Author: it is a note already

   Note that the authors, projects, and references will need to be included in the
   ``config-references.yml`` file. The author name uses the format:

>    ``surname_name``. For instance, Joe Pesci would be: ``authors: - pesci_joe``.

Reviewer: I would not use a real person name here.

Author: hahah, just an example, nobody's gonna use Joe Pesci :grin:

Reviewer: John Doe would be better

      projects:
        - ukesm

.. note::

   Note that all authors, projects, and references mentioned in the description
   section of the recipe need to be included in the ``config-references.yml``
   file. The author name uses the format: ``surname_name``. For instance, John

>    Doe would be: ``doe_john``. This information can be omitted by new users

Reviewer 2: Is it not standard to use only four letters of the last name, and two letters of the first name for the authors? So "John Doe" would be "doe_jo"?

Reviewer: Yes, but we are trying to get away from it and use full names.
There is already a [PR](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/pull/1164) for changing this, but new user should add their names using the full names.

Reviewer 2: I see.
Not sure how clear that is with the example provided here where the author name still follows the old standard.

Reviewer: `John Doe` --> `doe_john`.

>    Doe would be: ``doe_john``. This information can be omitted by new users

Reviewer 2: How do you omit the author information? You just don't put that information in the recipe?

Reviewer: Yes

Note that this section is not required, as datasets can also be provided in the
Diagnostics_ section.

.. _Preprocessors:

Recipe section: ``preprocessors``
=================================

The preprocessor section of the recipe includes one or more preprocesors, each

> of which may execute one or several preprocessor steps.

Reviewer: Isn't `call` actually correct?

Each preprocessor section includes:

> - A preprocessor name (any name, one yaml tab (2 spaces) under ``preprocessors``);

Reviewer: I think there is no need to specify the tabs here, this is part of the language syntax and applies everywhere through the recipe.

Note that this section is not required, as datasets can also be provided in the
Diagnostics_ section.

.. _Preprocessors:

Recipe section: ``preprocessors``
=================================

The preprocessor section of the recipe includes one or more preprocesors, each
of which may call the execution of one or several preprocessor functions.

Each preprocessor section includes:

- A preprocessor name (any name, under ``preprocessors``);
- A list of preprocesor steps to be executed (choose from the API);
- Any or none arguments given to the preprocessor steps;
- The order that the preprocesor steps are applied can also be specified using
  the ``custom_order`` preprocesor function.

The following snippet is an example of a preprocessor named ``prep_map`` that
contains multiple preprocessing steps (:ref:`Horizontal regridding` with two

> arguments, :ref:`Time operations` with no arguments and :ref:`Multi-model

Reviewer 2: Why would you call "time_average" with no argument? What will happen then? Nothing? If nothing, why call it?

Reviewer: Added an explanation.

- The diagnostics can also include an optional ``additional_datasets`` section.

The ``additional_datasets`` can add datasets beyond those listed in the the

> Datasets_ section. This is useful if specific datasets need to be linked with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datasets_ section. This is useful if specific datasets need to be used only by
```

> a specific diagnostic. The ``additional_datasets`` can be used to add variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a specific diagnostic. The ``additional_datasets`` can also be used to add variable
```

> specific datasets. This is also a good way to add observational datasets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specific datasets. This is also a good way to add observational datasets, which are usually variable specific.
```

       if my_area == 'stratosphere':
           diag = my_control_model / my_exp_model
           return diag

   def main(cfg):
       """Main diagnostic run function."""
       my_area = cfg['area']
       my_control_model = cfg['control_model']
       my_exp_model = cfg['exp_model']
       run_some_diagnostic(my_area, my_control_model, my_exp_model)

   if __name__ == '__main__':

       with run_diagnostic() as config:
           main(config)

This way a lot of the optional arguments necessary to a diagnostic are at the
user's control via the recipe.

Running your own diagnostic
---------------------------
If the user wants to test a newly-developed ``my_first_diagnostic.py`` which
is not yet part of the ESMValTool diagnostics library, he/she do it by passing
the absolute path to the diagnostic:

.. code-block:: yaml

  diagnostics:

    myFirstDiag:
      description: John Doe wrote a funny diagnostic
      variables:
        tos: # Temperature at the ocean surface
          preprocessor: prep_map
          start_year: 2001
          end_year: 2003
      scripts:
        JoeDiagFunny:
          script: /home/users/john_doe/esmvaltool_testing/my_first_diagnostic.py

> This way the user may test a new diagnostic thoroughly before committing to the

Reviewer 2: I like the word "thoroughly" here.  :smile:

either:

 - the absolute path to the script.
 - the path relative to the ``esmvaltool/diag_scripts`` directory.

As mentioned above, the datasets are provided in the Diagnostics_ section
in this section. However, they could also be included in the Datasets_
section.

Passing arguments to diagnostic
-------------------------------
The ``diagnostics`` section may include a lot of arguments that can be used by the
diagnostic script; these arguments are stored at runtime in a dictionary that is then
made available to the diagnostic script via the interface link (no matter if the diagnostic
is run in Python, NCL etc). Here is an example of such groups of arguments:

.. code-block:: yaml

    scripts:
      autoassess_strato_test_1: &autoassess_strato_test_1_settings
        script: autoassess/autoassess_area_base.py
        title: "Autoassess Stratosphere Diagnostic Metric MPI-MPI"
        area: stratosphere
        control_model: MPI-ESM-LR
        exp_model: MPI-ESM-MR
        obs_models: [ERA-Interim]  # list to hold models that are NOT for metrics but for obs operations
        additional_metrics: [ERA-Interim, inmcm4]  # list to hold additional datasets for metrics

> In this example, apart from the pointer to the diagnostic script ``script: autoassess/autoassess_area_base.py``,

Reviewer: I think `pointer` might be misleading in this context.
